1)	Good morning!  My name is Jeremy Hurst and I am a Computer Programmer.
	a)  Does anyone know what a computer programmer is?
	b)  Well, I'm here today to tell you exactly what a Computer Programmer is and that COMPUTERS ARE COOL!
	
2)  Does anyone know what this is (POINT TO FITBIT), then to the rest of the devices.
	a)  What do all of these things have in common?
		THEY ARE ALL COMPUTERS!
		
3)  Computers can be "programmed" to do cool things.
	a)  "Programmed" means TOLD, you have to tell computers what to do.
	b)  Look at some of the cool things a computer can do (start pointing to each one and asking them what it is)
		WEBSITES
		VIDEO GAMES
		NAVIGATION SYSTEMS
		MOVIES!
	c) THEY ARE ALL CREATED BY PROGRAMMERS JUST LIKE ME!  BUT HOW CAN WE TELL A COMPUTER WHAT TO DO?
	
4)  Read title
	a)  Some words here are familiar, but they don't make a sentence, so they might not make sense
		SKIM THROUGH WORDS, READ ONES THAT KIDS MIGHT KNOW
	b)  These might not make sense to you, but the computer understands this language




5) DEMO - SHOW 
	
	https://scratch.mit.edu
	http://elm-lang.org:1234/examples/mario
	
	https://bitsbox.com/
	http://elm-lang.org/examples/mario
	Video last thing



6)  Where do computer programmers work?  AND WHAT GOODS AND SERVICES TO THEY PROVIDE?
	PROGRAMMERS PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES TO JUST ABOUT EVERY JOB YOU CAN THINK OF.
	a)  Government - they help police catch bad guys, they help the water department give you fresh water, they help hungry people get food (HELP THE COMMUNITY)
	b)  Sports - have you been to a stadium and seen the scoreboard?  They program that.  They program fitbit's that count steps for runners.
	c)  Robotics - they program robots, like the robot that is rolling around the planet Mars right now.
	d)  Video Games - they program all of the video games, apps, and websites that you like to use.
	e)  Aerospace - they program the planes that fly in the sky, and shuttles that go into space
	f)  Banking - they program ATM's that you get your money out of, and they keep your money safe
	
	

	
7)	You need to love learning
	a)  Math - you need to know math so you can communicate with the computers.  You might need to tell a computer how to count money, or you might need to tell a computer on an airplane how high to fly.
	
	b)  Science - If you learn science you can know exactly how computers work from the inside.  Also, the more science you know, the more creative you can be!
	c)  Reading and Writing - I read a lot of non-fiction books.  They make me smarter at my job.  You have to read so much because you have to learn new things every day!
	

	You need to have some specific character traits too.
	a)  Responsibility - you have to be responsible because people are counting on you.  Not only your teammates (the people you work with, but also the community who you are writing the programs for)
	b)  Team Work - most of the time you will be working with a team of people.  Not everyone knows how to do everything, so you have to be a good team player!
	c)  Creativity - 50 years ago we didn't even have the computers that we have today.  Someone just invented it.  You need to be creative because there are new problems each day.
	
	
	
8)  How can I become a Computer Programmer?
	a)  You can start right now.  It's never too young to start learning to program.
		I just saw a 9 year old give a presentation to adults on programming and it was awesome.
	
	b)  You can start by studying hard in school.  Math, science, reading and writing, and all of the subjects.
	c)  You can build robots with things like Lego Mindstorm and program them.
	d)  You can learn on websites like Bitsbox and Code.org where you can program Mindcraft, Star Wars, or code with Anna and Elsa from Frozen!
	
	e)  Has anyone in here ever had a really cool idea for an app or game that didn’t exist.. or some way of making an app or game better?” (almost every kid raised their hands with anticipation)

	“Did you know you can sometimes write a program to do your homework? Who here wants to make a program to do their homework?” (all hands raised)

	“That’s what software developers do. They take those ideas and they make them happen."
	
			
	
CLOSING
Every day I run into something I don't know how to do
		I view this like solving a puzzle, or playing a video game.  I don't know how exactly where all the pieces should go when I start the puzzle.  I also don't know how to beat the game when I first start.  I have to try hard and I have to figure it out.			
		Things are constantly changing to you always need to learn.
		It's ok to make mistakes, that's how you learn and become a good problem solver.  Even if you try something and fail, you still learn a lot, so don't be afraid to try.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
